[Music]
strap in and get ready to blast off here
are 12 amazing space facts proving life
on earth is boring well let's be honest
may be boring in comparison is more
accurate you see outer space is amazing
by its sheer size the trillions of
massive objects it accommodates and the
many secrets it holds some of which
you're about to find out keep on
watching to discover the story behind
Earth's moon how a single teaspoon can
weigh a billion tons and how our galaxy
is heading on a deadly collision along
with other incredible facts don't forget
to click the subscribe button and turn
on notifications to join us on the
bright side of life counting down from
number 12 blue sunset on Mars now on
earth people are used to a beautiful
sunset that's painted in hues of orange
red and yellow on Mars however the
normally pinkish red sky turns blue as
the Sun goes down under the horizon it's
because Mars is much farther away from
the Sun than Earth making the sunlight
less intense the fine dust in the
Martian atmosphere absorbs the blue
light and gets rid of the warmer colors
that you typically see on earth whether
it's blue or yellow
both sunsets look spectacular number 11
full exploration of the planets humans
have been exploring space for over 60
years and the effort has certainly paid
off all the planets in our solar system
have now been explored even the dwarf
planets of Pluto and Ceres
most of the exploration was done by
NASA's Voyager program which began in
1977 Voyager 1 and 2 collected
information on the planets their moons
and their unique system of rings and
magnetic fields these twin spacecraft
continue to send data back to earth and
Voyager 1 is currently in it
stellar space number 10
giant water reservoir in 2011
astronomers discovered an enormous water
reservoir simply floating in space
around a supermassive black hole called
a quasar floating water vapors have been
found throughout the universe but they
aren't that common this particular
reservoir holds around 140 trillion
times the amount of water in Earth's
oceans it's one of the oldest largest
and at more than 12 billion light-years
away it's the farthest known to
humankind number 9
sound in space on earth sound waves make
air molecules vibrate which is why we're
able to hear sound other planets and
moons allow sound to travel through
mediums like their atmospheres and
oceans - in space though it's said that
there is no sound since there aren't any
molecules to vibrate and deliver sound
waves however not all researchers agree
on this given that space isn't just a
desolate vacuum in between the emptiness
there are clouds of gas and other stray
particles so depending on where you are
sound waves can be possible number 8 the
hottest planet out discovered in 2017
Celt 9b is the hottest planet we know of
next time you're complaining about the
heat on a scorching summer day just
remember that temperatures on this
planet can reach seven thousand eight
hundred degrees Fahrenheit that's
because Celt 9b orbits really close to
its star which is called Celt nine this
thing is way hotter and bigger than our
side experts believe that the giant star
might someday evaporate the entire
planet with its intense heat kind of a
sizzling solar sauna
wouldn't you say you wouldn't okay
number seven space trash trash isn't
just a problem in Earth's ocean cities
and forests there is a thing called
space junk which is any human-made
object that's been left in space and now
serves no purpose there's also natural
debris from meteoroids and other cosmic
objects there are currently over 500,000
pieces of space debris orbiting the
earth at speeds high enough to cause
significant damage if they were to
collide with a spacecraft or satellite
NASA does its best to track every single
object to ensure that missions outside
Earth can reach their destination safely
number six countless amounts of stars
have you ever looked up at the night sky
and tried to count all the stars yeah
good luck our galaxy the Milky Way not
the candy bar the galaxy has about 100
billion stars
what other estimates put it at over 200
billion since calculating the exact
amount is an almost impossible task
even for astronomers as for the entire
universe there are at least a billion
trillion stars that's a 1 with 21 zeroes
after it or comparison that means there
are more stars in space than there are
grains of sand on all of Earth's beaches
number 5 the moon was a piece of earth
when the planets in the solar system
were just starting to form earth didn't
have a moon for the longest time it took
a hundred million years for our natural
satellite to appear there are several
theories as to how the moon came into
existence but the prevailing one is the
fish in theory is that where somebody
went fishing caught the moon on a hook
and dragged it over into Earth's orbit
no I made that up the fishin theory
proposes that the moon was formed when
an object collided with earth sending
particles flying about gravity pulled
the particles together and the moon was
created it eventually settled down on to
Earth's elliptical plane which is the
path
the moon orbits number for cosmic
lighthouses among the most spectacular
looking space objects are pulsars
pulsars are a type of neutron star they
shoot out some of their material almost
at the speed of light
regular pulsars spin at a reasonable
speed between about one tenth to sixty
times per second but millisecond pulsars
can spin at an impressive 700 times a
second which is way too fast for the
human eye to even process as they spin
they emit a beam of radiation from their
axis that looks like the light from a
lighthouse astronomers can notice
pulsars when they face earth since it
looks like a light being shined on our
planet when the light shines elsewhere
the Pulsar can't be seen number three
the biggest volcano Mars houses the
biggest volcano in the solar system well
everything seems to be calm on Mars
nowadays in the past some sort of force
caused enormous volcanoes to form in
erupt one of these volcanoes is Olympus
Mons it's 16 miles tall which is the
height of 3 Mount Everest sand 374 miles
across making it about the size of
Arizona the volcano Groot is such a
gargantuan size because of the weak
gravity on Mars and the lack of tectonic
plate movement number 2 the Milky Way
and Andromeda collision the sky might
appear pretty peaceful if you look at it
from Earth but the Milky Way is headed
for a massive collision with the
Andromeda galaxy 4 billion years from
now set your alarm these galaxies will
meet and neither will survive stars will
be scrambled and constellations will be
undone eventually the two giants will
merge and form an elliptical galaxy but
according to National Geographic our Sun
and earth will survive thank goodness
any life-forms on earth will be treated
to a splendid sight
the galaxies come together number one
the densest objects in space neutron
stars are the size of a small city yet
their mass is about 1.4 times that of
the Sun they're formed when massive
stars die and their cores collapse in on
themselves the core continues to press
in on itself until all the electrons are
essentially crushed together leaving
only neutrons
this makes neutron stars one of the
densest objects in the universe in fact
a single teaspoon of neutron star
material would weigh a billion tons of
course getting this sample and returning
it back to earth might be a difficult
task since the gravity on a neutron star
is 2 billion times stronger than the
gravity on our planet hey give the job
to FedEx or UPS and let them worry about
delivery so which of these facts
surprised you the most tell us in the
comments below don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]